here in Germany clashes have broken out
between police and protesters at an
unauthorized demonstration in Berlin at
least 174 people were arrested and
dozens of police officers were injured
now some demonstrators used fireworks
set fire to barricades and pelted police
with stones and Bottles Pro Palestinian
protests were also held in other German
cities on Wednesday including Frankfurt
where police used water cannons and in
nurburg now authorities had banned such
protests sparked by the ongoing conflict
between Israel and Hamas to prevent any
possible anti-semitic
incidents DW correspondent Hans brand
from our parliamentary Studio told us
more about these illegal demonstrations
happening in
Germany yes indeed we've just seen the
pictures of those demonstrations which
were banned for fear of incitement in in
other words for fear of anti
anti-Semitism turning into uh calls for
violence for instance against Jews or
against Israel um and these Bannings led
to those clashes um uh now this is
obviously an assessment that the police
the authorities have to make there have
been similar demonstrations elsewhere in
Germany that have been entirely peaceful
so it's also possibly a situation that
is particular to Berlin where um the
situation is particularly heated at the
moment tempers are particularly heated
at the moment there have also been other
anti-semitic incidents such as um uh
stars of David being sprayed on certain
buildings um and there has even been an
attempted attack on a Jewish cultural
center with Molotov Cocktails so yes
these kinds of things have been
increasing maybe one should say that
anti-Semitism itself is not illegal in
Germany but obviously what's illegal is
calling for violence or acting in a
violent manner
Hans brt speaking to us there now one of
modern Germany's founding principles is
support for Israel and the protection of
Jewish people it's one aspect of
atonement for the Nazi era Holocaust or
shower as it's also known in which some
six million Jews were murdered now the
recent rise in anti-semitic incidents
has prompted concern among young Jewish
people here but they say that they
refuse to be
intimidated
this Berlin synagogue could have been
set on fire had the molotov cocktails
not fallen short and struck the sidewalk
in front of the
building Deborah kogan is Vice President
of the German Union of Jewish students
she knows the targeted Jewish Community
well I was shocked of course that a
synagogue was attacked but especially
this one because it is a very small
community and I didn't expect something
like that you had the feeling of at
least being safe here but as we see now
that's not the
case kogan's impression is that there is
now more police presence in front of
Jewish institutions still many Jewish
people in Berlin are opting to stay at
home when I walk by some Jewish
institutions sometimes I only see one
police officer and I've often notice
that they're looking at their cell
phones instead of keeping an eye on
what's going on around them
even if it's still difficult to lead a
normal Jewish life in Germany a life in
safety long after the shua 20-year-old
Deborah kogan does not want her home to
be taken away from
her we have had over 1,700 years of
Jewish life here and I would say that
Jews have always been part of Germany
many are now considering whether they
still have a future here at all it's sad
to have such thoughts after all these
years after everything we've been
through that you life in Germany should
end with
this Deborah kogan doesn't want to hide
in fact she advocates for dialogue even
if that seems unlikely at this point in
time